David Dobervich (he/him): Hmm hmm hmm
David Dobervich (he/him): hmm
Bradley Scholten: Yo:
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay. So it Let's just remember what we had said. Um,
David Dobervich (he/him): there. So there's no notes prior to the activity. Is that true?
David Dobervich (he/him): Wait, we said.
David Dobervich (he/him): What What did we say last time?
David Dobervich (he/him): Do you remember
Bradley Scholten: that you wanted to do something with um like? Here's like an observational study, and like, you know. And here's like an experiment
Bradley Scholten: like so like what's the difference in what we can conclude? Based off of these things.
Bradley Scholten: Um! And then sort of thinking about like what are
Bradley Scholten: what are some of the ways that,
Bradley Scholten: like It could go wrong in our conclusions, like what or some bad conclusions, or maybe like some.
Bradley Scholten: I'm guessing like basically the idea of like a lurking variable is kind of what
Bradley Scholten: we're sort of thinking about it as like.
Bradley Scholten: Why is an observational study? Not enough.
Bradley Scholten: Why do we have to do
Bradley Scholten: all the fun stuff for experiments?
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay?
David Dobervich (he/him): And we were hoping to get them to like. Name a lot of the potential sampling biases.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
Bradley Scholten: that's what the next video is. So
David Dobervich (he/him): okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): uh,
David Dobervich (he/him): I think that's actually probably sufficient for me. I just wanted to like, remember what the context was. I should have written it down.
Bradley Scholten: So I made notes for biases.
Bradley Scholten: I just need to record the video, I stupidly left my ipad at home. So
David Dobervich (he/him): the notes in there.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah.
David Dobervich (he/him): Oh, yeah, I see him.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): alright, cool. Um, i'm gonna make a graphic organizer and make the activity and the activity we're giving. Starting tomorrow.
Bradley Scholten: Yes, okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): Cool
Bradley Scholten: uh you're gonna be out tomorrow, though.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah, I was gonna try to find like a Youtube video. That kind of
Bradley Scholten: maybe it goes over some of the
Bradley Scholten: you know key differences, and then they can jump into the thing you're making.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay, i'll try and make it
Bradley Scholten: be less Teacher.
I mean, I think if I can find like the right video, that maybe kind of
Bradley Scholten: helps them out. Then it would be fine. But I yeah, I do need to know what it looks like. So that way I can sort of think about like
Bradley Scholten: what is some like pre-knowledge they would need before jumping into this.
David Dobervich (he/him): It's unlikely i'll be able to have a single example that will
David Dobervich (he/him): like have students elicit all the possible sample biases,
David Dobervich (he/him): so I don't know if i'll frame it as like. You want to do this kind of study, and here are different ways you have of thinking like, I guess, very similar to last year's
David Dobervich (he/him): uh sampling biases activity, because they seem to remember there were like several options. And we were saying, why the options were bad, or maybe I'm just imagining it. But anyway, that's I was just looking at it. It's the autonomous driver like self-driving cars like
Bradley Scholten: they pose a question like, Do you support autonomous vehicles, and then, like
Bradley Scholten: then they brainstorm all the bad ways to go about
Bradley Scholten: trying to collect data for that,
David Dobervich (he/him): right? So maybe i'll suggest
David Dobervich (he/him): all have like a bunch of fake suggestions like we could do this. We could do this. We could do this,
David Dobervich (he/him): and you can kind of like name what the problem with each one is.
Bradley Scholten: I like that.
David Dobervich (he/him): Um!
David Dobervich (he/him): And then maybe after that,
David Dobervich (he/him): maybe i'll keep that context. Or maybe i'll do a different context,
David Dobervich (he/him): because it would be nice to have one where
David Dobervich (he/him): we say, Oh, instead of doing an observational study. Let's do an experiment.
David Dobervich (he/him): Um i'll. I'll see if I can think of a single context that would do both. But if not, then the way it'll end after that is
David Dobervich (he/him): like, Why, why is an experiment generally better than an observational study?
David Dobervich (he/him): Given that it's better. Why, Don't, we always do it experiment? And Then there will be the graphic organizer.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
Bradley Scholten: that's good. Um. A context that I heard about was that one I forget which University did it, but they studied
Bradley Scholten: like five hundred Chinese children, and monitored their fish consumption and their Iq. And the study showed that children who ate more fish had higher Iqs.
Bradley Scholten: But there's obviously like a good Gillian lurking variables there.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay? Uh, I think i'm going to get to work on it.
David Dobervich (he/him): Thank you.
Bradley Scholten: Feel better.